🚀 Cloud Architecture (AWS/Azure)
From cloud building blocks to dependable systems.
A rigorous, self-paced, AI-powered cloud architecture course for researchers, professionals, and teams designing reliable, secure systems with AWS and Azure.



Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image


Cloud Architecture (AWS/Azure) course preview
The hard part of cloud architecture is not only choosing a service. It is connecting compute, storage, network, identity, resilience, security, cost, and human decisions into one system you can trust.

✨ Why this course?
Cloud Architecture (AWS/Azure) is a one-day web course taught, tutored, drilled, and graded by AI. It turns cloud design decisions into a structured learning experience with concrete cases, adaptive practice, grounded tutoring, and built-in academic-integrity screening.

No vague “just use the cloud” advice. No definition-only quizzes. Every assessment asks the learner to reason from evidence and make an architectural decision.

🧭 The learning journey
Session	What you will work through	The question it answers
🟦 The building blocks	Renting instead of owning; compute, storage, network, and identity; virtual machines, containers, serverless functions, databases, regions, availability zones, virtual networks, subnets, and least privilege.	Which cloud primitives does this system need, and why?
🟪 Designing for real use	Scaling, load balancing, statelessness, failure design, redundancy, backup, cost, managed services, infrastructure as code, observability, encryption, secrets, and shared responsibility.	Will this architecture remain reliable, secure, and practical under real conditions?
The reasoning primers
Two ungraded primers make the course more than a checklist:

🧪 How to reason about cloud-architecture cases — identify the architectural idea that decides a concrete deployment scenario.
🧠 Core reasoning skills — practice analysis, inference, evaluation, deduction, and induction in a domain-neutral format.
🎯 Built for real learning
📚 Learn at your pace
Every lecture is available in Short, Medium, or Long depth while keeping the same examples and learning objectives.

💬 Ask a grounded tutor
The section-scoped AI tutor streams answers grounded in the exact lecture passage on screen.

🧩 Practice adaptively
Generated scenario problems adjust difficulty based on recent answers, so practice responds to the learner.

✍️ Reason, do not recite
Homework, tests, practice, and diagnostics require multi-step application to realistic production cases.

🏁 See what you know
Two homework sets, a timed course test, and a cumulative final receive semantic grading, per-problem results, and written rationale.

🛡️ Protect assessment integrity
Every submission is checked by both a static text detector and diachronic keystroke-pattern analysis.

📦 What is included
One intensive day organized around four core topics
Three lecture depths: Short, Medium, and Long
Section-scoped AI tutoring with streamed responses
Adaptive topic practice with persistent difficulty
Four graded checkpoints: two homework sets, a course test, and a final
Ungraded diagnostic checks across multiple formats, lengths, and course phases
Live analytics for KPIs, topic mastery, activity, and weak areas
Free PDF and TXT course downloads with no sign-in
A built-in product walkthrough video
👥 Designed for
Audience	Takeaway
🔬 Researchers and professionals entering cloud architecture	A foundational but substantial introduction compressed into one focused day.
🛠️ Product and engineering teams	A shared language for cloud primitives, resilience, security, cost, and operational design.
🎓 Instructors and curriculum designers	A working example of AI-taught, AI-graded coursework with integrity controls.
🔎 Academic-integrity researchers	A live demonstration of layered authorship screening in an educational product.
⚙️ Under the hood
Contract-first API — OpenAPI is the source of truth; React Query hooks and Zod validators are generated from the same contract.
Streaming tutor — Server-Sent Events deliver section-scoped tutor responses token by token.
Adaptive practice engine — Per-session difficulty persists and changes after correct and incorrect attempts.
Two-layer detection — GPTZero-backed text detection is blended with structural signals, while keystroke analysis evaluates paste-and-rewrite behavior and sustained input patterns.
Diagnostic self-tests — Operator controls verify the database, course seed, model completion, JSON mode, detection pipeline, practice loop, grading loop, and analytics.
Auto-reseeded curriculum — A content marker detects a subject change and replaces stale course material transactionally.
🧑‍💻 Run it locally
This is a pnpm workspace with separate artifacts for the course, API server, and walkthrough video.

pnpm install
pnpm run typecheck
pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run dev
pnpm --filter @workspace/qr-course run dev

The course and API require the environment variables documented in the deployment setup. Secrets are never committed to the repository.

🌈 The promise
Learn the architecture, not just the service.

Cloud Architecture (AWS/Azure) gives learners a practical mental model for system design: compute → storage → network → identity → resilience → observability → security → cost.

Ready to move from “it runs” to “this architecture can support real use”?
Start with the course. Build the habit of asking what the evidence actually proves.