🚀 Cryptography: Secrets, Locks, and Digital Trust
A rigorous but accessible 4-hour introduction to codes, ciphers, and digital trust.
Learn how machines keep secrets, the idea that made the internet possible, and where it all breaks.



Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image


Cryptography course preview
The hard part of cryptography isn't just the math. It's the human layer, the bad dice, and the leaky clocks.

✨ Why this course?
Cryptography: Secrets, Locks, and Digital Trust is a 4-hour web course taught, tutored, drilled, and graded by AI. It turns cryptography concepts into a structured learning experience with concrete cases, adaptive practice, grounded tutoring, and built-in academic-integrity screening.

🧭 The learning journey
Hour	Summary
🔏 HOUR 1 EVERY CODE EVER BROKEN WAS BROKEN BECAUSE PEOPLE REPEAT THEMSELVES	Letter counts, stock phrases, weather reports: Enigma fell to habit, not to genius.
💻 HOUR 2 PERFECT SECRECY EXISTS, IS PROVABLE, AND IS WORTHLESS	Why the unbreakable cipher went unused, and why security is priced, not guaranteed.
🌐 HOUR 3 TWO STRANGERS CAN AGREE ON A SECRET WHILE EVERYONE LISTENS	The one genuinely astonishing idea in the field, and the reason there is an internet.
💥 HOUR 4 NOBODY BREAKS THE MATH — THINGS FALL APART AT THE SEAMS	Keys, people, sloppy code, and governments: where every real-world break has come from.
Hour 1 also distinguishes decipherment from cryptanalysis. Alice Kober tabulated Linear B's repeated sign groups, triplets, and changing inflected endings, then built a consonant/vowel relation grid without assigning sound values. Michael Ventris tested likely Cretan place-name cribs, including Knossos and Amnisos, and propagated their values through that structure. Linear B was an orphaned script recovered through internal repetition and geographical clues; Hours 2–4 concern deliberate concealment from an adversary.

The reasoning primers
Two ungraded primers make the course more than a checklist:

🧪 How to reason about cryptography cases — identify the cryptographic idea that decides a concrete security failure.
🧠 Core reasoning skills — practice analysis, inference, evaluation, deduction, and induction in a domain-neutral format.
🎯 Built for real learning
📚 Learn at your pace
Every lecture is available in Short, Medium, or Long depth while keeping the same examples and learning objectives.

💬 Ask a grounded tutor
The section-scoped AI tutor streams answers grounded in the exact lecture passage on screen.

🧩 Practice adaptively
Generated scenario problems adjust difficulty based on recent answers, so practice responds to the learner.

✍️ Reason, do not recite
Roughly half the coursework is multiple choice. Most freeform responses take one or two sentences, while still requiring reasoned application to concrete cases.

🏁 See what you know
Two homework sets, a timed course test, and a cumulative final give every question an immediate numeric percentage grade with feedback.

🛡️ Protect assessment integrity
Every submission is checked by both a static text detector and diachronic keystroke-pattern analysis.

📦 What is included
A 4-hour intensive organized around four core topics
Three lecture depths: Short, Medium, and Long
Section-scoped AI tutoring with streamed responses
Adaptive topic practice with persistent difficulty
Four graded checkpoints: two homework sets, a course test, and a final
Ungraded diagnostic checks across multiple formats, lengths, and course phases
Exact text answer persistence before grading, with a live answer diagnostic that verifies generated, sent, persisted, and grading evidence
Live analytics for KPIs, topic mastery, activity, and weak areas
Free PDF and TXT course downloads with no sign-in
A built-in product walkthrough video
👥 Designed for
Audience	Takeaway
🔬 Researchers and professionals entering cryptography	A foundational but substantial introduction compressed into a focused 4-hour experience.
🛠️ Product and engineering teams	A shared language for codes, ciphers, and digital trust.
🎓 Instructors and curriculum designers	A working example of AI-taught, AI-graded coursework with integrity controls.
🔎 Academic-integrity researchers	A live demonstration of layered authorship screening in an educational product.
⚙️ Under the hood
Contract-first API — OpenAPI is the source of truth; React Query hooks and Zod validators are generated from the same contract.
Streaming tutor — Server-Sent Events deliver section-scoped tutor responses token by token.
Adaptive practice engine — Per-session difficulty persists and changes after correct and incorrect attempts.
Two-layer detection — GPTZero-backed text detection is blended with structural signals, while keystroke analysis evaluates paste-and-rewrite behavior and sustained input patterns.
Diagnostic self-tests — Operator controls verify the database, course seed, model completion, JSON mode, detection pipeline, practice loop, grading loop, analytics, and live generated/sent/persisted/grading evidence.
Auto-reseeded curriculum — A content marker detects a subject change and replaces stale course material transactionally.
🧑‍💻 Run it locally
This is a pnpm workspace with separate artifacts for the course, API server, and walkthrough video.

pnpm install
pnpm run typecheck
pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run dev
pnpm --filter @workspace/qr-course run dev

The course and API require the environment variables documented in the deployment setup. Secrets are never committed to the repository.

🌈 The promise
Understand the secrets, locks, and trust that run the internet.

Cryptography: Secrets, Locks, and Digital Trust gives learners a practical mental model for digital security and encryption.

Ready to move from “it's magic” to “this is how it works”?
Start with the course. Build the habit of asking what the evidence actually proves.