🧠 Nano Evolutionary Psychology
From evolutionary principles to careful explanations of behavior.
A rigorous, self-paced, AI-powered introduction to evolutionary approaches to human behavior for adult researchers, professionals, and students entering the field.



Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image
 
Unsupported image


Evolutionary psychology asks how evolutionary processes may help explain psychological traits and behavior. It requires testable predictions, comparison with alternative explanations, and care not to treat probabilistic patterns as fixed or universal.

✨ Why this course?
Nano Evolutionary Psychology is a 4–6 hour web course taught, tutored, drilled, and graded by AI. It turns core evolutionary-psychology questions into a structured learning experience with concrete cases, adaptive practice, grounded tutoring, and built-in academic-integrity screening.

No adaptation-only storytelling and no definition-only quizzes. Every assessment asks the learner to reason from evidence, compare explanations, and state conclusions cautiously.

🧭 The learning journey
Topic area	What you will work through	The question it answers
🟦 Evolution by natural selection	Variation, inheritance, differential reproduction, fitness, and levels of explanation.	What would selection predict, and what would it not establish?
🟪 Adaptation and evolutionary inference	Adaptations, by-products, noise, hypothesis formation, alternatives, and standards of evidence.	How can an evolutionary account be tested rather than assumed?
🟩 Sexual selection and mating	Mate preferences, competition, trade-offs, and variation across people and contexts.	Which predictions follow from sexual selection, and where are their limits?
🟨 Parental investment and families	Investment, parent–offspring conflict, life-history trade-offs, and caregiving ecology.	How might costs, benefits, and environments shape family behavior?
🟧 Kin selection and inclusive fitness	Relatedness, indirect fitness, kin recognition, and conditional helping.	When might helping relatives be favored?
🟥 Cooperation and reciprocity	Reciprocal altruism, partner choice, punishment, reputation, and collective action.	How can cooperation persist when defection is possible?
🟫 Social cognition, status, and groups	Coalitions, hierarchy, social learning, conflict, and intergroup psychology.	How might social environments shape flexible strategies?
⬛ Culture, development, and critical methods	Developmental calibration, culture–gene interactions, cross-cultural evidence, replication, and ethical interpretation.	How should evolutionary claims be evaluated responsibly?
The reasoning primers
Two ungraded primers support careful reasoning:

🧪 How to reason about evolutionary-psychology cases — identify the hypothesis, predicted evidence, alternatives, and limits in a concrete behavioral scenario.
🧠 Core reasoning skills — practice analysis, inference, evaluation, deduction, and induction in a domain-neutral format.
🎯 Built for real learning
📚 Learn at your pace
Every lecture is available in Short, Medium, or Long depth while keeping the same examples and learning objectives.

💬 Ask a grounded tutor
The section-scoped AI tutor streams answers grounded in the exact lecture passage on screen.

🧩 Practice adaptively
Generated scenario problems adjust difficulty based on recent answers, so practice responds to the learner.

✍️ Reason, do not recite
Homework, tests, practice, and diagnostics require multi-step application to realistic production cases.

🏁 See what you know
Two homework sets, a timed course test, and a cumulative final receive semantic grading, per-problem results, and written rationale.

🛡️ Protect assessment integrity
Every submission is checked by both a static text detector and diachronic keystroke-pattern analysis.

📦 What is included
A 4–6 hour course organized around eight evolutionary psychology topic areas
Three lecture depths: Short, Medium, and Long
Section-scoped AI tutoring with streamed responses
Adaptive topic practice with persistent difficulty
Four graded checkpoints: two homework sets, a course test, and a final
Ungraded diagnostic checks across multiple formats, lengths, and course phases
Live analytics for KPIs, topic mastery, activity, and weak areas
Free PDF and TXT course downloads with no sign-in
A built-in product walkthrough video
👥 Designed for
Audience	Takeaway
🔬 Researchers and professionals entering evolutionary psychology	A foundational but substantial introduction completed in approximately 4–6 hours.
🧠 Students and interdisciplinary teams	A shared language for evolutionary hypotheses, behavioral evidence, alternatives, and uncertainty.
🎓 Instructors and curriculum designers	A working example of AI-taught, AI-graded coursework with integrity controls.
🔎 Academic-integrity researchers	A live demonstration of layered authorship screening in an educational product.
⚙️ Under the hood
Contract-first API — OpenAPI is the source of truth; React Query hooks and Zod validators are generated from the same contract.
Streaming tutor — Server-Sent Events deliver section-scoped tutor responses token by token.
Adaptive practice engine — Per-session difficulty persists and changes after correct and incorrect attempts.
Two-layer detection — GPTZero-backed text detection is blended with structural signals, while keystroke analysis evaluates paste-and-rewrite behavior and sustained input patterns.
Diagnostic self-tests — Operator controls verify the database, course seed, model completion, JSON mode, detection pipeline, practice loop, grading loop, and analytics.
Auto-reseeded curriculum — A content marker detects a subject change and replaces stale course material transactionally.
🧑‍💻 Run it locally
This is a pnpm workspace with separate artifacts for the course, API server, and walkthrough video.

pnpm install
pnpm run typecheck
pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run dev
pnpm --filter @workspace/qr-course run dev

The course and API require the environment variables documented in the deployment setup. Secrets are never committed to the repository.

🌈 The promise
Learn to test an evolutionary explanation, not merely tell an evolutionary story.

Nano Evolutionary Psychology gives learners a practical reasoning sequence: observe variation → propose alternatives → derive predictions → compare evidence → qualify conclusions.

Ready to move from a plausible account to a testable, carefully qualified explanation?
Start with the course. Build the habit of asking what the evidence actually proves.