🔍 Merlin
Find usernames across the internet — a friendly web app for tracking down accounts by name.

Type a username, watch results stream in live, and jump straight to every profile that matches.

📖 Overview
Merlin wraps a powerful username-search engine in a clean, no-jargon web app. There is no command line, no setup, and no technical knowledge required — you open the page, type a name, and the results appear card by card as each site is checked.

One-Box Search — A single input is the entire interface. Enter any username (up to 64 characters) and press Search or hit Enter.
462 Sites Checked Per Search — Every query fans out across hundreds of social networks, forums, and platforms in parallel, so a full scan finishes in seconds rather than minutes.
Live Streaming Results — Matches surface the instant they are confirmed, using Server-Sent Events. You never wait for the whole scan to finish before seeing the first hit.
Clickable Result Cards — Each found account shows the site name, its favicon, and the direct profile URL. Click any card to open the profile in a new tab.
Honest Progress — A live progress bar reports exactly how many of the 462 sites have been checked, and only reaches 100% when the scan genuinely completes.
Firewall-Aware — Sites protected by Cloudflare or similar WAFs are detected and flagged separately, so a blocked check is never mistaken for a real result.
Graceful Failure — If the connection drops or a scan stalls, the app says so and preserves the results found so far, instead of falsely claiming completion.
⚙️ Technical Features
Flask + SSE Backend — A lightweight Flask server (app.py) runs each search in a background thread and streams results to the browser over a text/event-stream connection. No polling, no page reloads.
Direct Library Integration — The app calls Sherlock's sherlock() function directly through a custom QueryNotify subclass that pushes each result into a queue, rather than shelling out to the CLI. This keeps results fast and structured.
Parallel Site Scanning — Sherlock's multi-threaded FuturesSession checks up to 20 sites concurrently, and results are relayed to the UI as each future resolves.
Result Classification — Every check is resolved to one of CLAIMED, AVAILABLE, WAF, UNKNOWN, or ILLEGAL. Only confirmed matches become cards; WAF hits raise a notice; the rest advance the progress bar silently.
Local Site Database — Site definitions load from the bundled sherlock_project/resources/data.json at startup (462 sites after NSFW filtering), avoiding a network dependency on boot.
Zero-Build Frontend — The entire UI is a single self-contained templates/index.html with inline CSS and vanilla JavaScript. No bundler, no framework, no build step.
Production Server — Deployed behind Gunicorn (gunicorn --bind=0.0.0.0:5000 --reuse-port app:app) rather than Flask's development server, so the app stays responsive under real traffic.
🔐 Required Secrets
SESSION_SECRET — Signed-session cookie secret used by Flask. Falls back to a default in development, but should always be set in production.
No third-party API keys are required. Sherlock queries public site endpoints directly, so the app works out of the box with no external accounts.

🚀 Running Locally
The app is a Flask server managed by the Start application workflow.

python app.py

It serves on port 5000. Open the preview and start searching.

For production, it runs under Gunicorn:

gunicorn --bind=0.0.0.0:5000 --reuse-port app:app

🗂️ Project Structure
app.py                        Flask server + SSE streaming endpoint
templates/index.html          Self-contained frontend (HTML/CSS/JS)
sherlock_project/             Sherlock core library
  sherlock.py                 Main search logic
  sites.py                    Site list loader
  result.py                   QueryStatus / QueryResult types
  resources/data.json         Local site database (loaded at startup)
pyproject.toml                Dependencies (Poetry)

🎓 Designed For
Anyone checking their own digital footprint — See at a glance where a username is registered across the web.
OSINT & research — A fast, visual front end for reconnaissance work that would otherwise happen on the command line.
Non-technical users — No terminal, no flags, no install. Just a search box and clickable results.
🙏 Credits
Merlin is built on top of the excellent Sherlock Project (MIT License), adding a real-time streaming web interface on top of the original engine.